Add agent management section to docs (#2285)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/collector/management.md

  example to apply a configuration or to upgrade it. Note that the
  supervisor/telemetry communication is not part of OpAMP.

Let's have a look at a concrete setup:

![OpAMP example setup](../img/opamp.svg)

1. The OpenTelemetry collector, configured with pipeline(s) to:
   - (A) receive signals from downstream sources
   - (B) export signals to upstream destinations, potentially including
     telemetry about the collector itself (represented by the OpAMP `own_xxx`
     connection settings).
1. The bi-directional OpAMP control flow between the control plane implementing
   the server-side OpAMP part and the collector (or a supervisor controlling the
   collector) implementing OpAMP client-side.

You can try out a simple OpAMP setup yourself by using the [OpAMP protocol
implementation in Go][opamp-go]. For the following walkthrough you will need to
have Go in version 1.19 or above available.

We will set up a simple OpAMP control plane consisting of an example OpAMP
server and let an OpenTelemetry collector connect to it via an example OpAMP
supervisor.

First, clone the `open-telemetry/opamp-go` repo:

```sh

> $ git clone https://github.com/open-telemetry/opamp-go.git

Reviewer: When there's no command output, and the code-block language is `sh` (or `shell` or `bash`), drop the prompt:

```suggestion
git clone https://github.com/open-telemetry/opamp-go.git
```

```

Next, we need an OpenTelemetry collector binary that the OpAMP supervisor can
manage. For that, install the [OpenTelemetry Collector Contrib][otelcolcontrib]
distro. The path to the collector binary (where you installed it into) is
referred to as `$OTEL_COLLECTOR_BINARY` in the following.

In the `./opamp-go/internal/examples/server` directory, launch the OpAMP server:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```console
```

find the server and what OpenTelemetry collector binary to manage):

```yaml
server:
  endpoint: ws://127.0.0.1:4320/v1/opamp

agent:
  executable: $OTEL_COLLECTOR_BINARY
```

> **Note** Make sure to replace `$OTEL_COLLECTOR_BINARY` with the actual file
> path. For example, in Linux or macOS, if you installed the collector in
> `/usr/local/bin/` then you would replace `$OTEL_COLLECTOR_BINARY` with
> `/usr/local/bin/otelcol`.

Next, create a collector configuration as follows (save it in a file called
`effective.yaml` in the `./opamp-go/internal/examples/supervisor` directory):

```yaml
receivers:
  prometheus/own_metrics:
    config:
      scrape_configs:
        - job_name: "otel-collector"
          scrape_interval: 10s
          static_configs:
            - targets: ["0.0.0.0:8888"]
  hostmetrics:
    collection_interval: 10s
    scrapers:
      load:
      filesystem:
      memory:
      network:

exporters:
  logging:
    verbosity: detailed

service:
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [hostmetrics, prometheus/own_metrics]
      exporters: [logging]
```

Now it's time to launch the supervisor (which in turn will launch your
OpenTelemetry collector):

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```console
```

2023/02/08 13:32:54 Stopping the agent to apply new config.
2023/02/08 13:32:54 Stopping agent process, PID=13553
2023/02/08 13:32:54 Agent process PID=13553 successfully stopped.
2023/02/08 13:32:54 Starting agent /usr/local/bin/otelcol
2023/02/08 13:32:54 Agent process started, PID=13554
2023/02/08 13:32:54 Agent is not healthy: Get "http://localhost:13133": dial tcp [::1]:13133: connect: connection refused
2023/02/08 13:32:55 Agent is not healthy: health check on http://localhost:13133 returned 503
2023/02/08 13:32:55 Agent is not healthy: health check on http://localhost:13133 returned 503
2023/02/08 13:32:56 Agent is not healthy: health check on http://localhost:13133 returned 503
2023/02/08 13:32:57 Agent is healthy.
```

If everything worked out you should now be able to go to
[http://localhost:4321/](http://localhost:4321/) and access the OpAMP server UI
where you should see your collector listed, managed by the supervisor:

![OpAMP example setup](../img/opamp-server-ui.png)

You can also query the collector for the metrics exported (note the label
values):

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```console
```

---
title: Management
weight: 23
---

> Please be sure to review the following documentation:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please be sure to review the following documentation a prerequisite:
```

*  [Getting Started][otel-collector-getting-started] to understand how to
   install the OpenTelemetry collector.
*  [Configuration][otel-collector-configuration] for how to configure the 
   OpenTelemetry collector, setting up telemetry pipelines.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document describes how you can manage your OpenTelemetry Collector deployment at scale.
```

## Basics

> Telemetry collection at scale requires us to come up with a structured approach
> to manage agents. Typical agent management tasks (ordered from most common to
> least common) include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Telemetry collection at scale requires a structured approach to manage agents.
Typical agent management tasks (ordered from most common to
least common) include:
```

> to manage agents. Typical agent management tasks (ordered from most common to
> least common) include:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
to manage agents. Typical agent management tasks include:
```
I think people may have different opinions about how common the particular task is, so perhaps omit the part in parenthesis.

1. Querying the agent information and configuration. The agent information can
include its version, operating system related information, or capabilities.
The configuration of the agent refers to its telemetry collection setup,
for example, the OpenTelemetry collector [configuration][otel-collector-configuration].

> 1. Upgrading and downgrading agents and management of agent-specific packages,
> including the base agent functionality and plugins.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Upgrading/downgrading agents and management of agent-specific packages,
including the base agent functionality and plugins.
```

"the base agent functionality" --> is that mean to be a part of "agent-specific packages"? If so, what's it referring to in particular? Maybe some examples would be helpful. Although IIRC you can't just manage packages in the collector, but need to build a version of the collector with components baked in.

1. Applying new configurations to agents. This might be required because of
changes in the environment or due to policy changes.
1. Health and performance monitoring of the agents, typically CPU and memory usage
and also agent-specific metrics, for example, the rate of processing or
backpressure-related information.
1. Connection management between a control plane and the agent such as
handling of TLS certificates (revocation and rotation).

Not every use case requires support for all of the above agent management tasks.
In the context of OpenTelemetry we aim for a dogfooding, so task 

> _4. Health and performance monitoring_ is ideally done using OpenTelemetry.

Reviewer 2: Hmm. I don't understand this sentence. Dogfooding in my experience is using the software an org (we) produce as a means to better empathize with end users and fix problems that we all experience. How is that relevant here?

Author: Maybe dogfooding is the wrong term. It's a recommendation to use and open standard (OpenTelemetry? :) for this task. Can drop if you think it's not appropriate here.

Reviewer 4: "OpenTelemetry on OpenTelemetry" or something like that?

> ## OpAMP
> Observability vendors and cloud providers offer proprietary solutions for 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

## OpAMP
Observability vendors and cloud providers offer proprietary solutions for 
```

agent management. In the open source observability space, there is an emerging standard 
that you can use for agent management: Open Agent Management Protocol (OpAMP).

> The [OpAMP specification][opamp-spec] (status: Beta) defines how to manage a 
> fleet of telemetry data agents. These agents can be  [OpenTelemetry collectors][otel-collector] 
> but you could also be using it for managing other agents, such as Fluent Bit or
> Prometheus in agent mode or indeed a combination of different agents, forming
> a fleet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [OpAMP specification][opamp-spec] (status: Beta) defines how to manage a 
fleet of telemetry data agents. These agents can be  [OpenTelemetry collectors][otel-collector],
Prometheus in agent mode, Fluent Bit, or other agents in any arbitrary combination.
```

OpAMP is a client/server protocol that supports communication over HTTP and
over WebSockets:

* The **OpAMP server** is part of the control plane and acts as the orchestrator,
managing a fleet of telemetry agents.

> * The **OpAMP client** us part of the data plane. The client side of OpAMP can
> be implemented in-process, for example, as the case for [OpAMP support in the OpenTelemetry
> collector][opamp-in-otel-collector]. The client side of OpAMP could alternatively
> be implemented out-of-process. For this latter option, you can use a supervisor 
> that takes care of the OpAMP specific communication with the OpAMP server and at 
> the same time controls the telemetry agent, for example to apply a configuration
> or to upgrade it. Note that the supervisor/telemetry communication
> is not part of OpAMP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The **OpAMP client** is part of the data plane. The client side of OpAMP can
be implemented in-process, for example, as the case for [OpAMP support in the OpenTelemetry
collector][opamp-in-otel-collector]. The client side of OpAMP could alternatively
be implemented out-of-process. For this latter option, you can use a supervisor 
that takes care of the OpAMP specific communication with the OpAMP server and at 
the same time controls the telemetry agent, for example to apply a configuration
or to upgrade it. Note that the supervisor/telemetry communication
is not part of OpAMP.
```

---
title: Management
weight: 23
---

> Please be sure to review the following documentation as prerequisite:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes how you can manage your OpenTelemetry collector
deployment at scale.

To get the most out of this page you should know how to install and configure
the collector. These topics are covered elsewhere:
```

Reviewer: Hey @mhausenblas. This had been marked as resolved, but the changes were not applied AFAICT.

Reviewer: @mhausenblas - btw, in case you didn't know: you can use the "commit" buttons that are a part of the suggestions to accept changes. It makes is easy, and less error prone, to apply changes.

- [Getting Started][otel-collector-getting-started] to understand how to install
  the OpenTelemetry collector.
- [Configuration][otel-collector-configuration] for how to configure the
  OpenTelemetry collector, setting up telemetry pipelines.

> This document describes how you can manage your OpenTelemetry collector
> deployment at scale.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Hey @mhausenblas. This had been marked as resolved, but the changes were not applied AFAICT. (The sentence was moved to the start of the page.

   example, the OpenTelemetry collector
   [configuration][otel-collector-configuration].
1. Upgrading/downgrading agents and management of agent-specific packages,
   including the base agent functionality and plugins.
1. Applying new configurations to agents. This might be required because of
   changes in the environment or due to policy changes.
1. Health and performance monitoring of the agents, typically CPU and memory
   usage and also agent-specific metrics, for example, the rate of processing or
   backpressure-related information.
1. Connection management between a control plane and the agent such as handling
   of TLS certificates (revocation and rotation).

Not every use case requires support for all of the above agent management tasks.
In the context of OpenTelemetry task _4. Health and performance monitoring_ is
ideally done using OpenTelemetry.

## OpAMP

Observability vendors and cloud providers offer proprietary solutions for agent
management. In the open source observability space, there is an emerging
standard that you can use for agent management: Open Agent Management Protocol
(OpAMP).

> The [OpAMP specification][opamp-spec] (status: Beta) defines how to manage a

Reviewer 5: You could consider removing the status from this page. It may become outdated when the status changes. The status is anyway visible on the spec page.

fleet of telemetry data agents. These agents can be [OpenTelemetry
collectors][otel-collector], Fluent Bit or other agents in any arbitrary
combination.

> **Note** The term "agent" is used here as a catch-all term for OpenTelemetry
> components that respond to OpAMP, this could be the collector but also SDK
> components.

OpAMP is a client/server protocol that supports communication over HTTP and over
WebSockets:

- The **OpAMP server** is part of the control plane and acts as the
  orchestrator, managing a fleet of telemetry agents.
- The **OpAMP client** is part of the data plane. The client side of OpAMP can
  be implemented in-process, for example, as the case in [OpAMP support in the
  OpenTelemetry collector][opamp-in-otel-collector]. The client side of OpAMP
  could alternatively be implemented out-of-process. For this latter option, you
  can use a supervisor that takes care of the OpAMP specific communication with
  the OpAMP server and at the same time controls the telemetry agent, for
  example to apply a configuration or to upgrade it. Note that the
  supervisor/telemetry communication is not part of OpAMP.

Let's have a look at a concrete deployment:

> ![OpAMP example setup](/img/docs/OTel_OpAMP.svg)

Reviewer: I know that you've moved the image already, but I'd like to ask that you relocate the image closer to where it is being used, and rename the file to follow the website's file naming conventions. So move and rename:

- `/img/docs/OTel_OpAMP.svg`

to 

- `/content/en/docs/collector/img/opamp.svg`

Then update the reference in the file.
```suggestion
![OpAMP example setup](../img/opamp.svg)
```
